add system design eng (#938)
apache/incubator-iotdb: docs/Documentation/SystemDesign/5-DataQuery/6-LastQuery.md

    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

# Last query

The main logic of Last query is in LastQueryExecutor

* org.apache.iotdb.db.query.executor.LastQueryExecutor

The Last query executes the `calculateLastPairForOneSeries` method for each specified time series.

## Read MNode cache data

We add a Last data cache to the MNode structure corresponding to the time series that needs to be queried.

`calculateLastPairForOneSeries` method For the last query of a certain time series, first try to read the cached data in the MNode.

```
try {
  node = MManager.getInstance().getDeviceNodeWithAutoCreateStorageGroup(seriesPath.toString());
} catch (MetadataException e) {
  throw new QueryProcessException(e);
}
if (((LeafMNode) node).getCachedLast() != null) {
  return ((LeafMNode) node).getCachedLast();
}
```
If it is found that the cache has not been written, execute the following standard query process to read the TsFile data.

## Last standard query process

> Last standard query process needs to traverse all sequential files and out-of-order files to get query results, and finally write the query results back to the MNode cache.  In the algorithm, sequential files and out-of-order files are processed separately.

Reviewer: It is better to replace "out-of-order" with "unsequential files" or just "unseq files". It is like a idiom to use "unsequential files" to represent the unordered files in our related documents.

> Last standard query process needs to traverse all sequential files and out-of-order files to get query results, and finally write the query results back to the MNode cache.  In the algorithm, sequential files and out-of-order files are processed separately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last standard query process needs to traverse all sequential files and unsequential files to get query results, and finally write the query results back to the MNode cache.  In the algorithm, sequential files and out-of-order files are processed separately.
```

- The sequential file is sorted by its writing time, so use the `loadChunkMetadataFromTsFileResource` method directly to get the last` ChunkMetadata`, and get the maximum timestamp and corresponding value through the statistical data of `ChunkMetadata`.
    ```
    if (!seqFileResources.isEmpty()) {
      List<ChunkMetaData> chunkMetadata =
          FileLoaderUtils.loadChunkMetadataFromTsFileResource(
              seqFileResources.get(seqFileResources.size() - 1), seriesPath, context);
      if (!chunkMetadata.isEmpty()) {
        ChunkMetaData lastChunkMetaData = chunkMetadata.get(chunkMetadata.size() - 1);
        Statistics chunkStatistics = lastChunkMetaData.getStatistics();
        resultPair =
            constructLastPair(
                chunkStatistics.getEndTime(), chunkStatistics.getLastValue(), tsDataType);
      }
    }
    ```

> - Out of order files need to traverse all `ChunkMetadata` structures to get the maximum timestamp data.  It should be noted that when multiple `ChunkMetadata` have the same timestamp, we take the data in` ChunkMatadata` with the largest `version` value as the result of Last.

Reviewer: Same here

> - Out of order files need to traverse all `ChunkMetadata` structures to get the maximum timestamp data.  It should be noted that when multiple `ChunkMetadata` have the same timestamp, we take the data in` ChunkMatadata` with the largest `version` value as the result of Last.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Unsequential files need to traverse all `ChunkMetadata` structures to get the maximum timestamp data.  It should be noted that when multiple `ChunkMetadata` have the same timestamp, we take the data in` ChunkMatadata` with the largest `version` value as the result of Last.
```
